Mount the pressure: put the pressure
e.g. Tough question paper mounted the pressure on candidates.

Keep eyes and ears open: to remain alert
e.g. I am keeping my eyes and ears open for a sale on winter coats.

Crack down: to take severe or stern measures
e.g. The police are starting to crack down on local drug dealers.

Eat into/away: destroy gradually as by erosion
e.g. For eons, the pounding waves ate away at the shoreline.

Wean away: to force someone to break a habit
e.g.  It was almost impossible to wean her from her high spending habits.

Gear up: to get ready for a coming action or event
e.g. A group of investors who had geared up for the takeover fight.

Play one's card: to use the resources or strategies at one's disposal
e.g. Played her cards right and got promoted.

Behind closed doors: in secret
e.g.  They held the meeting behind closed doors, as the law allowed.

Turn a blind eye: ignore something and pretend you do not see it.
e.g.  The usher turned a blind eye to the little boy who sneaked into the theater.

Hand in glove: very close to someone.
e.g. John is really hand in glove with Sally.

In the wake of something: after something; as a result of some event.
e.g.  We had no place to live in the wake of the fire.

Down the line: in the future
e.g. 

Put one's foot down: to assert something strongly.
e.g. The boss put her foot down and refused to accept any more changes to the plan.

Wear something on your sleeve: to make your feelings or beliefs known to everyone
e.g. Some people feel the need to wear their patriotism on their sleeve.

Wear your heart on your sleeve: to make your emotions known to others.
e.g. I don't like wearing my heart on my sleeve.

Cut short: to end abruptly, terminate
e.g. Her nap was cut short by a loud noise from outside.

Rule out: to prove to be unrelated or not for consideration; eliminate; exclude
e.g. To rule out the possibility of error.

Come through/pass with flying colours: to complete a difficult activity very successfully
e.g. She took her university entrance exam in December and passed with flying colours.

Take one's cue from someone: to use someone else's behaviour or reactions as a guide to one's own. 
e.g. If you don't know which spoons to use at the dinner, just take your cue from John.

Lose your nerve: to fear doing something
e.g. Jim lost his nerve and wouldn't try to ski down the hill.

Boil something down: to reduce something to its most basic or important parts.
e.g. I am supposed to boil down this ten-page report to half a page. 

Gun for someone: to seek someone out in anger.
e.g. The boss is gunning for you. I think that Walter is gunning for me.

Test the water/waters: to try to discover what people think about an idea before you do anything about it, or to try to discover what a situation is really like before you become very involved in it.
e.g. I mentioned my idea to a couple of friends as a way of testing the water and they were very enthusiastic about it

Bound to be: be certain or destined to
e.g. We are bound to hear from them soon.

Get a slap on the wrist:  to get a light punishment (for doing something wrong)
e.g.  I thought I'd get a slap on the wrist for speeding, but I got fined $500.

Strike a chord: to cause someone to remember something; to remind someone of something; to be familiar.
e.g. The woman in the portrait struck a chord with me, and I realized that it was my grandmother.

Leave someone high and dry: to leave someone helpless.
e.g.  All my workers quit and left me high and dry.
All the children ran away and left Billy high and dry to take the blame for the broken window.

Cut no ice with somebody: does not cause them to change their opinion or decision.
e.g I've heard her excuses and they cut no ice with me.

Met out: to give or order a punishment.
e.g. The jail sentences meted out to drug traffickers were considered too light by US officials.

Come handy: to be useful.
e.g. I think that this gadget will come in handy in the kitchen.

Break into something: to begin to perform or utter suddenly
e.g. As soon as the movie started, the people behind me broke into loud chattering.

Punch above one's weight: Competing against someone who you are no match for.

Weed out: to remove as being undesirable, inefficient, or superfluous
e.g. To weed out inexperienced players.

Run a tight ship: to control a business or other organisation firmly and effectively.
e.g.  Ruth runs a tight ship and has no time for shirkers.

Flesh out: to add details to or make more complete
e.g. She fleshed out her proposal considerably before presenting it to the committee for action.

Break ranks: to publicly show that you disagree with a group of which you are a member (often + with ).
e.g Junior officers were said to be prepared to break ranks with the leadership.
